// 佛随念
1. Such Indeed is the Blessed One, ♦ Arahant, worthy one, 
2. supremely enlightened,
3. endowed with knowledge and virtue,
4. follower of the Noble Path,
5. knower of worlds,
6. the peerless trainer of persons, 
7. teacher of gods and humans, 
8. the Enlightened Teacher,
9. the Blessed One.


// 法随念
1. Well taught by the Blessed One ♦ is the Dhamma, 
2. visible here and now,
3. timeless,
4. open to all,
5. learned and applied to oneself,
6. understood by the wise each for himself.

// 僧随念
1. Of pure conduct is the Order of Disciples ♦ of the Blessed One,
2. of upright conduct is the Order of Disciples ♦ of the Blessed One, 
3. of wise conduct is the Order of Disciples ♦ of the Blessed One,
4. of generous conduct is the Order of Disciples ♦ of the Blessed One. Those four pairs of persons ♦ the eight kinds of individuals: ♦
that is the Order of Disciples ♦ of the Blessed One.
5. They are worthy of offerings, 
6. they are worthy of hospitality, 
7. they are worthy of gifts,
8. they are worthy of reverential salutations,
9. an incomparable field of merit for the world.

// 礼敬七佛
1. Homage to Vipassi the Buddha ♦ possessed of the eye of wisdom and splendor.
Homage to Sikhi the Buddha ♦ compassionate towards all beings.
2. Homage to Vessabhu the Buddha ♦ free from all defilements ♦ and possessed of great energy.
Homage to Kakusanda the Buddha ♦ the conqueror of the army of Māra.
3. Homage to Konagamana the Buddha ♦ who has shed all defilements ♦
and has lived the holy life. Homage to Kassapa the Buddha ♦ who is fully freed from all defilements.
4. Homage to Aṅgirasa ♦ the Buddha Gotama ♦ son of the Sākyas ♦
full of radiance ♦ who proclaimed the Dhamma ♦ that dispels all suffering.
5. Those in the world ♦ who have extinguished the flames of passion ♦ and have realized through insight ♦ things as they really are ♦
they never slander anyone ♦ they are mighty men ♦ who are free from fear.
6. Gotama the Buddha ♦ dear to gods and humans
endowed with knowledge and virtue ♦ mighty and fearless
we pay homage to our Great teacher ♦ Supreme Buddha.

// 礼敬佛塔与菩提树
I show my humble reverence ♦ to all the stupas ♦ in all of the places ♦ that they stand ♦
the bodily relics ♦ the Great Bodhi Tree ♦ and all the Buddha images forever.
I show my reverence ♦ to this Bodhi-tree ♦
seated under which ♦ the Teacher attained full Enlightenment ♦ by overcoming all defilements.
I, too, honor ♦ this great Bodhi-tree ♦
which was honoured ♦ by the Leader of the World ♦ My homage to thee ♦ O king of Bodhi-trees

Amen! Amen! Amen!