Thus have I heard:
On one occasion, the Blessed One was living in Sāvatthi at Jetavana at Anāthapiṇḍika’s monastery.
Now when the night was far advanced, a certain deity, whose surpassing radiance
illuminated the whole of Jetavana, approached the Blessed One,
respectfully saluted him and stood to one side.
Standing thus, he addressed the Blessed One in verse:

1.
Many deities and humans - longing for happiness
have pondered on the questions of blessings. - Pray, tell me what are the highest blessings?

2.
Not to associate with the foolish - but to associate with the wise
and to honor those worthy of honor - these are the highest blessings.

3.
To reside in a suitable locality - to have performed meritorious actions in the past,
and to set oneself in the right direction - these are the highest blessings.

4.
Vast learning, skill in handicraft, - well grounded in discipline
and pleasant speech - these are the highest blessings.

5.
To support one’s father and mother, - to cherish one’s wife and children,
and to be engaged in peaceful occupations - these are the highest blessings.

6.
Generosity, righteous conduct, - giving assistance to relatives,
and doing blameless deeds - these are the highest blessings.

7.
To cease and abstain from evil, - to abstain from intoxicating drinks,
and to be diligent in practising the Dhamma - these are the highest blessings.

8.
Paying reverence to those who are worthy of reverence, - humility, contentment, gratitude,
and the timely hearing of the Dhamma - these are the highest blessings.

9.
Patience, obedience, - meeting monks
and timely discussions on the Dhamma - these are the highest blessings.

10.
Self-control, chastity, - understanding the Noble Truths,
and the realization of Nibbāna - these are the highest blessings.

11.
The mind that is not touched by the ups and downs of life; - the mind that is free from sorrow,
stainless and secure - these are the highest blessings.

12.
Those who have achieved these blessings - are victorious everywhere,
and they succeed in all their goals. For them, - these are the highest blessings.

By this truth, may there be well-being!
